---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

This week focused a lot on reading, but it was extremely helpful. I learned that eclipses aren't the only thing that cause a star's brightness to decrease--starspots do, too!

A little bit of background: starpots are darker, cooler regions of the star's surface. They are the same as sunspots, but on a different star. Cool, right? (Pun intended! But don't be fooled, they're still really hot.) Just like the sunpots on our sun, starpots evolve with time. They start small, grow--[sometimes taking up a quarter of the star](https://www.noao.edu/noao/noaonews/dec99/node2.html)--before shrinking and finally disappearing. They also rotate with the star. A star with a natural variance to it (meaning it increases and decreasing in brightness through its own chemistry) will have a curve that looks like a sinusoidal wave where each peak and valley is roughly the same amplitude. With starspots, both the changing size and the changing location show up on the star's light curve as a sinusoidal wave with increasing and/or decreasing amplitudes.

Here's an example of an eclipsing binary star that is not variable and does not have visible starspot activity:
(Note to self: Figure out how to embed the graphs.)

Here's an example of an eclipsing binary star that IS variable, but does not have visible starspot activity:
(Note to self: Figure out how to embed the graphs.)

Here's an example of an eclipsing binary star that has visible starspot activity:
(Note to self: Figure out how to embed the graphs.)


Pretty cool, huh? And those charts bring me to the second half of what I did this week: I generated light curves! I took the TESS data from 60 stars and generated light curves for them and then I downsampled the data (a new skill!) using [Pandas' Dataframe.sample()](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-pandas-dataframe-sample/) function. While I've used matplotlib before, this is my first time using Altair and it built these interactive light curves.

That's all for now, see y'all next week!
